The next thing we're gonna do
is add types to our resolver.
So we've been operating without a net so
to speak up to this point.
By that I mean,
in my resolvers like I could put a bunch
of junk in here that will
not make Apollo happy.
There's nothing here that enforces,
that I do the right thing or
I return the right thing, and
this will cause all sorts of
annoying things to happen.
And in order for us to have this, in order
to deliver on the promise I've made,
that we can have types
defined in one place, and
nice type checking and
enforcement of those types.
All the way from our resolvers,
over the wire, into our UI,
like we're gonna have to address this,
and that's what we're about to do next.
And this is potentially one of the more
exciting things we're gonna do in this
project, and that is generating TypeScript
code based on that GraphQL schema.
Now, everything's set up for
you right now,
such that you can just run yarn codegen.
And we're gonna do that and
then we're gonna look at what I had
in place in order to make this work.
So do this from within the server
sub project, run yarn codegen.
So I'm gonna open a new terminal here.
Yarn codegen.
Sorry, I'm gonna make
a quick git commit first
All right, yarn codegen, and
hopefully you'll see no errors,
you see two green checkmarks here.
You can see that some files changed so
my server bounced and came back up.
And let's make sure that
everything's still working.
We go back to our Apollo studio,
we click Run, looks like it's still good.
All right, so what just happened?
Well, you may notice that there is
a new file, a new file appears, right?
Resolvers-types.generated.ts, so
you can name these files whatever you
want this file,
you can name it whatever you want.
I like having .generated.ts,
or some convention like that,
makes it very easy for me to know,
I shouldn't touch this file myself ever.
These are files that you
should be able to blow away,
and recreate based on your GraphQL schema,
as your schema evolves.
So if we look at the contents
of this file, you can see, hey,
here are our scalars.
We've got ID, we've got string,
we've got Boolean.
These are sort of most primitive types
in the GraphQL world, and we can see
a mapping of these capital letter things
into their TypeScript equivalents.
Here is something that looks
like our query interface.
And we've got our current user and
our suggestions,
let's look at our query resolver here.
There's current user and suggestions, so
it looks like these are kind of
return types of the of our resolvers.
This is what our client can expect to
get if asking for these kinds of things.
And then we've got our suggestion and
our user type great, so
this represents the TypeScript equivalent.
Have these GraphQL entities, and
they're all exported from this
module which means we're free to import
them and use them in our code, right?
These are sort of your models so to speak.
Down here we have more types,
and some of this we're not gonna
get into like there's graph
skillers concept of subscriptions
where you could say,
tell me when something changes.
Very advanced concept and
tricky to implement in a pro-formart way.
But we've also got some resolver types
like this resolver, resolver type wrapper.
Probably have a query, query resolvers and
look at that query resolvers.
It's got a current user,
it's got suggestion.
So these are the things we're
gonna use to type our resolvers.
So with that, let's get going.
By the way, if you see type errors
immediately following running yarn
codegen, just bounce
your TypeScript server.
If you're using VS code, there's command
restrict restart TypeScript server.
It's just a lot kind of changing behind
the scenes outside the context of
the editor.
So VS code doesn't see that
you're editing a file or
saving it just something
changes behind the scenes.
Sometimes, if you see red squiggles, and
you think they shouldn't be there,
always good to restart.
So at the highest level,
we're gonna type the big
mega resolver object that's returned with
the default export from resolvers.ts.
So we'll import this resolvers
type from this generated file, and
we will type the return type of
our create resolvers function
Actually, I don't think we
have a function here but
we can update it to make
it like that if we want.
Effectively we just need the export
to be typed this way, so
whether you have a function that exports
it or we just have a very full variable
that's a default export,
I think that's where we ended up.
So, let's go to resolvers,
let's add this, and
then let's make this of the right type.
Great, so now, we appropriately be yelled
at if we add a junk here which is great.
Now one problem is that this query thing,
if we look at what's imported,
it's just sort of inferring
the type from whatever is exported,
which is great for this file.
But over here, it kinda is what it is,
so part of the problem
here is if I do this,
everything kinda looks okay here.
If I mess with this,
make the method name wrong,
I'm not getting the type errors
that I would hope to get.
So let me restart my TypeScript
server just to be safe
Yeah, I'm getting no type errors, so
we really wanna type this as well, right?
So the way we're gonna do that, let me
undo my deliberate messing things up here.
We're gonna import query resolvers,
here we go and
make sure you make it a local
path sorry it's dot dot slash.
And now hopefully, yep, so
if I don't have the right names here that
are coming from my GraphQL schema,
I will get the red squiggles
that tell me I've been bad.
So that's it.
So in resolvers.ts, we use this sort
of top level type, and then for
each service object that
contains a set of resolvers.
We can have like query resolvers or
user resolvers or suggestion resolvers,
and we'll talk more about when
we have to build our first one.
We'll talk about why we would have that
and what purpose it serves, so great
There's some sample data we can return
just to take advantage of our types.
Instead of that empty suggestions array,
we can paste the sample data in and
return this instead.
And what we should see, just note that
there's only one suggestion here.
When we complete a change in our UI,
and we actually consume this data,
we should see two of these things show up.
So let's return this from suggestions.
All right, we're gonna just test this
with our server here, or our dev tool.
Okay, awesome.
Note that, there's a lot more
on suggestions I could get.
Get the avatar URL if I want, and
you see how I'm getting what I asked for.
Can ask for only the name or only the ID.
All right, now let's deal with context,
so This is where we have this nice
little convenience object that's gonna be
available within each of these resolvers.
So it's actually the third argument,
it's this right here.
And currently, it's an any, but what we
want is to be able to do something like
this, like grab the DB off of this thing.
And then we could say db.getStuff, and
it'll just be there handed to us just
where we need it for convenience.
So, we want typing to help us
understand what's possible there,
and that's what we're about to do.
So in our resolvers.ts, we're gonna
define an interface for
this context object.
And for now it's just gonna have this db
on it, so we're gonna have to import this,
so we get its type, and create an object
with a db property pretty simple.
So we're adding this to
the top of resolvers.ts.
And we wanna export this because
we'll need it in other places.
Next, we're gonna pass this
type in as a typeparam
to both of the resolver
types we just applied.
Both the one at the top level with the
resolvers thing and the query resolvers.
They both take this as a typeparam,
so you can add it here.
And then in query.ts up at the top,
we can add it here, and
we'll have to import it
Dot slash or dot dot slash And
what does this mean?
Well, now this little db thing
we put in here, look at that,
now we can do db., and
we get createFavorite,
createTweet, createUser,
you had all this good stuff.
This is how we're gonna go and
retrieve our data, it's really nice and
convenient to have that there and
had that typed for us.
We're not gonna use this quite yet So
we'll use her little underscore trick,
we'll kind of leave it there for later.
This is unused but that's okay.
Great, one last place,
we need to apply this type and
that is where this context
object is created.
Remember that little function in
Apollo server, this thing here, right?
We're gonna make this return
a TwitterResolverContext.
That means if we put extra junk on here,
it will be appropriately scolded for that.
So, what is the end
result that we get here?
Well, if in resolvers,
we say I need a thing,
that's an empty array, I should be told,
Hey, you got to give me that array.
You have to initialize this with an empty
array or something, when things start up.
And it also means that in my query
resolvers down here, I could do thing,
and I would get this, so
here's all of the array prototype things.
So let's say, I do this, right?
And then go back here and we say,
no, I don't want that anymore.
Things should light up appropriately like
this is saying, hey, this thing's gone.
So we have typing on this context object
now, we also have make sure that we're
returning the right things, now that we've
added types to the resolvers themselves.
So if we forget to return here,
it's gonna say, hey, look,
I expected you to give me
an array of suggestions here.
Like this should be,
returning an array of suggestions or
a promise that resolves to
an array of suggestions,
does anyone wanna guess why there's
this promise that resolves to an array?
Like what would that let us do,
the fact that we can return an array or
a promise that resolves to that array?
>> Data in the middle.
Yeah, we can get data in the middle,
we can make it an async function, right?
You just put the word async
before the function, and
now we can await within the function,
and things will just work as expected.
So, if you return a promise from one
of these Apollo, we'll just wait for
it, as needed, which is really
nice no special ceremony required.
So, great I think we're at a point
now where we have typing that works.
One last check, make sure things are still
operating, seems good, seems great.